## Section 4

In public discution of business we take certain values for granded.Today I'm going to talk about four of them: collabration, hard work, creativity, and excellence.Most poeple will say they are all good things.I'm going to suggest that is a over-simgle view.The trouble with these values is that theoratical concepts  remove from reallity of day to day business. Pursue values by all means, but they prepare for what may happen as a result. They can actually cause damage witch is not at all the intention. Bussiness leaders generally try to do the right thing. But all to offen the right thing backfire if those leaders adopt values without understand and managing the side effect that arise. The value can easily get in the way of what actually intended. OK, so the first value I'm going to discuss is collabration, let me give you an example. On a management training couse I once attended, we were put in to groups, and had to construct a bridge across a stream, using building blocks that we were given. The rule was that everyone in the team, had to move at least one building block during the construction. This was intended to encourage team work. But it was really a job best on by one person. The other team try to collabrate on building the structure and desented to confusion with everyone getting each other's way. Our team leader sovle the challange brilleanly. She simply ask everyone in the team to move a piece a few centermeters to comply with the rule, and then let the person in the team with an alltitude for puzzles like this build it alone.