---
title: Cambridge English 10-1
layout: post
tags: ['IELTS', 'Reading']
---
## Stepwells

site: [Stepwells](https://mini-ielts.com/414/reading/stepwells)

> However, the significance of this invention – the stepwell – goes beyond its **utilitarian** application.

**utilitarian** /juːˌtɪl.əˈter.i.ən/ *adjective.* 实用的  `useful`

> When the water level was high, the user needed only to descend a few steps to reach it; when it was low, several levels would have to be negotiated.

**have to be negotiated**

> Others are more **elaborate**, with long stepped passages leading to the water via several storeys built from stone and supported by pillars, they also included pavilions that sheltered visitors from the relentless heat.
>
> But perhaps the most impressive features are the **intricate** decorative sculptures that **embellish** many stepwells, showing activities from fighting and dancing to everyday acts such as women combing their hair and churning butter.

**elaborate** /iˈlæb.ɚ.ət/ *adjective.* 精细的; 精美的; 复杂的 `intricate` `complicated`

**intricate** /ˈɪn.trə.kət/ *adjective.* 错综复杂的 

**embellish** /ɪmˈbel.ɪʃ/ *verb.* 装饰

> many are **derelict** and dry

**derelict** /ˈder.ə.lɪkt/ *adjective.* 破败的 `rickety` `tumbledown`

> today it’s in **pristine** condition

**pristine** /prɪˈstiːn/ *adjective.* 崭新的

> It’s actually a tank (kund means **reservoir** or pond) rather than a well

**reservoir** /ˈrez.ɚ.vwɑːr/ *noun.* 水库

> including four sides of steps that descend to the bottom in a **stunning** **geometrical** formation

**stun** /stʌn/ *verb.* 使震惊

**geometrical** /ˌdʒiː.əˈmet.rɪk/ *adjective.* 几何学的

> **aesthetically**, it’s perhaps one of the most dramatic

**aesthetically/esthetically**  /esˈθet̬.ɪ.kəl.i/ *adverb.* 优美的; 美观的

> Built in around 850 AD next to the temple of Harshat Mata, the baori comprises hundreds of **zigzagging** steps that run along three of its sides, steeply descending 11 **storeys**, resulting in a striking geometric pattern when seen from afar. On the fourth side, covered verandas supported by **ornate** pillars overlook the steps.

**zigzag** /ˈzɪɡ.zæɡ/ *noun.* 曲折线条

**storey** /ˈstɔːr.i/ *noun.* 楼层

**ornate** /ɔːrˈneɪt/ *adjective.* 华美的; 华丽的

> Today, following years of **neglect**, many of these monuments to **medieval** engineering have been saved by the Archaeological Survey of India

**neglect** /nɪˈɡlekt/ *verb.* 疏于管理; 不重视

**medieval** /ˌmed.iˈiː.vəl/ *adjective* 中世纪的; 原始的

> which serve as a reminder of both the **ingenuity** and artistry of ancient civilisations and of the value of water to human existence.

**ingenuity** /ˌɪn.dʒəˈnjuː.ə.t̬i/ *noun.* 心灵手巧

## Trends and prospects for European transport systems

site: [Trends and prospects for European transport systems](https://mini-ielts.com/415/reading/trends-and-prospects-for-european-transport-systems)

> It is difficult to **conceive** of **vigorous** economic growth without an efficient transport system.

**conceive** /kənˈsiːv/ *verb.* 想出; 怀有

**vigorous** /ˈvɪɡ.ɚ.əs/ *adjective.* 剧烈的; 强健的; 坚决的

> For passenger transport, the determining factor is **the spectacular growth in** car use. The number of cars on European Union (EU) roads **saw an increase of** three million cars each year from 1990 to 2010, and in the next decade the EU will see a further **substantial** increase in its fleet.

**substantial** /səbˈstæn.ʃəl/ *adjective.* 可观的; 显著的;

> In the last 20 years, as internal **frontiers** have been **abolished**, the EU has moved from a ”stock” economy to a ”flow” economy.

**frontier** /frʌnˈtɪr/ *noun.* 边界; 边疆

**abolish** /əˈbɑː.lɪʃ/ *verb.* 废除; 取消

