---
title: Cambridge English 10-2
layout: post
tags: ['IELTS', 'Reading']
---

## Tea and the Industrial Revolution

site: [Tea and the Industrial Revolution](https://mini-ielts.com/428/reading/tea-and-the-industrial-revolution)

> Alan Macfarlane, professor of anthropological science at King’s College, Cambridge has, like other historians, spent decades wrestling with the **enigma** of the Industrial Revolution.

**enigma** /əˈnɪɡ.mə/ *noun.* 迷; 难以捉摸的人

> an **affluent** middle-class willing to buy mass-produced objects

**affluent** /ˈæf.lu.ənt/ *adjective.* 富裕的

> While this was the case for England, other nations, such as Japan, the Netherlands and France also met some of these **criteria** but were not industrialising.

**criterion**  /kraɪˈtɪr.i.ən/ *noun.* 标准 

**criteria** /-ˈtɪr.i.ə / (plural)

> The **antiseptic** properties of tannin, the active **ingredient** in tea, and of hops in beer – plus the fact that both are made with boiled water – allowed urban communities to flourish at close quarters without **succumbing** to water-borne diseases such as **dysentery**.

**antiseptic** /ˌæn.t̬iˈsep.tɪk/ *noun.* 抗菌剂

- **antibacterial** /ˌæn.t̬i.bækˈtɪr.i.əl/ *adjective.* 抗菌的

**ingredient** /ɪnˈɡriː.di.ənt/ *noun.* 原材料; 因素

**succumb** /səˈkʌm/ *verb.* 屈服; 被压垮

**dysentery** /ˈdɪs.ən.ter.i/ *noun.* 痢疾

> The theory sounds **eccentric** but once he starts to explain the detective work that went into his **deduction**, the **scepticism** gives way to **wary** admiration.

**eccentric** /ɪkˈsen.trɪk/ *adjective.* 古怪的

**deduction** /dɪˈdʌk.ʃən/ *noun.* 扣除; 推论

**scepticism/skepticism** /ˈskep.tɪ.sɪ.zəm/ *noun.* 怀疑态度

**wary** /ˈwer.i/ *adjective.* 警惕的

- **weary** /ˈwɪr.i/ *adjective.* 疲惫的

> recently wrote a **favourable** **appraisal** of his research.

**favourable** /ˈfeɪ.vɚ.ə.bəl/ *adjective.* 肯定的; 赞同的

**appraisal** /əˈpreɪ.zəl/ *noun.* 评价

> The **infant** **mortality** rate **halved** in the space of 20 years, and this happened in both rural areas and cities, and across all classes.

**infant** /ˈɪn.fənt/ *noun.* 婴儿; 学童

**mortality** /mɔːrˈtæl.ə.t̬i/ *noun.* 生命的有限; 死亡率

**halve** /hæv/ *verb.* 对半分

> There were improvements in agriculture that wiped out **malaria**, but these were small gains. **Sanitation** did not become widespread until the 19th century.

**malaria** /məˈler.i.ə/ *noun.* 疟疾

**sanitation** /ˌsæn.əˈteɪ.ʃən/ *noun.* 卫生系统

> Macfarlane notes that even though 17th-century Japan had large cities, high **literacy** rates, even a **futures market**, it had turned its back on the **essence** of any work-based revolution by giving up labour-saving devices such as animals, afraid that they would put people out of work.

**literacy** /ˈlɪt̬.ɚ.ə.si/ *noun.* 读写能力

**futures market** 期货市场

**essence** /ˈes.əns/ *noun.* 本质

## Gifted children and learning

site: [Gifted children and learning](https://mini-ielts.com/429/reading/gifted-children-and-learning-)

> For example, a very close positive relationship was found when children’s IQ scores were compared with their home educational **provision**.

**provision** /prəˈvɪʒ.ən/ *noun.* 供给

> There appears to be a **qualitative** difference in the way the **intellectually** highly able think, compared with more average-ability or older pupils, for whom external regulation by the teacher often **compensates** for lack of internal regulation.

**qualitative** /ˈkwɑː.lə.teɪ.t̬ɪv/ *adjective.* 性质的

**intellectually** /ˌɪn.t̬əlˈek.tʃu.ə.li/ *adverb.* 理智地

**compensate** /ˈkɑːm.pən.seɪt/ *verb.* 赔偿; 补偿

> Overviewing research on the thinking process of highly able
> children, put the instructor’s problem **succinctly**.

**succinctly** /səkˈsɪŋkt.li/ *adverb.* 简要地

- **succinct** /səkˈsɪŋkt/ *adjective.* 简明的

> **Conversely**, teachers who have a tendency to ‘overdirect’ can **diminish** their gifted pupils’ learning **autonomy**.

**conversely** /kənˈvɝːs.li/ *adverb.* 相反地

**diminish** /dɪˈmɪn.ɪʃ/ *verb.* 减少 `attenuate` 

**autonomy** /ɑːˈtɑː.nə.mi/ *noun.* 自主

- *Demonstrators* demanded immediate *autonomy* **for** their region.
- *The* universities want *to* preserve their *autonomy* **from** central government.

```
Although ‘spoon-feeding’ can produce extremely high examination results, these are not always followed by equally impressive life successes.
```

> Such practices have been found to be particularly useful for bright children from **deprived** areas.

**deprive** /dɪˈpraɪv/ *verb.* 剥夺

- **a deprived area** 贫困地区

> Positive emotions **facilitate** the creative aspects of earning and negative emotions inhibit it.

**facilitate** /fəˈsɪl.ə.teɪt/ *verb.* 促进; 加快 +1

## Museums of fine art and their public

site: [Museums of fine art and their public](https://mini-ielts.com/430/reading/museums-of-fine-art-and-their-public)

> The fact that people go to the Louvre museum in Paris to see the original painting Mona Lisa when they can see a reproduction anywhere leads us to question some assumptions about the role of museums of fine art in today’s world 

```
The fact that ... leads us to question some assumptions about ... in today’s world 
```

> However, if Mona Lisa was a famous novel, few people would bother to go to a museum to read the writer’s actual **manuscript** rather than a printed reproduction.

**manuscript** /ˈmæn.jə.skrɪpt/ *noun.* 手抄本

> In addition, it could be argued that the practice of **interpreting** or ‘reading’ each medium follows different conventions.

**interpret** /ɪnˈtɜː.prɪt/ *verb.* 解释; 理解 +1

**it could be argued that** 可以说...

> Yet it has always been possible to make very accurate **facsimiles** of pretty well any fine art work.

**facsimile** /fækˈsɪm.əl.i/ *noun.* 摹本; 复制品

> **Evidently**, nothing the viewer thinks about the work is going to **alter** that value, and so today’s viewer is **deterred** from trying to extend that **spontaneous**, immediate, self-reliant kind of reading which would originally have met the work.

**evidently** /ˈev.ə.dənt.li/ *adverb.* 明显地

**alter** /ˈɑːl.tɚ/ *verb.* 改变 +1

**deter** /dɪˈtɝː/ *verb.* 威慑; 防止

**spontaneous** /spɑːnˈteɪ.ni.əs/ *adjective.* 主动的; 自发的; 自然的

> **Consequently**, the **dominant** critical approach becomes that of the art historian, a specialised academic approach devoted to ‘discovering the meaning’ of art within the cultural context of its time.

**consequently** /ˈkɑːn.sə.kwənt.li/ *adverb.* 因此

**dominant** /ˈdɑː.mə.nənt/ *adjective.* 首要的
