---
title: Cambridge English 10-3
layout: post
tags: ['IELTS', 'Reading']
---

## The Context, Meaning and Scope of Tourism

site: [The Context, Meaning and Scope of Tourism](https://mini-ielts.com/440/reading/the-context-meaning-and-scope-of-tourism)

> In addition, Meis (1992) points out that the tourism industry involves concepts that have remained **amorphous** to both analysts and decision makers.

**amorphous** /əˈmɔːr.fəs/ *adjective.* 无固定形状的; 杂乱的

## Autumn leaves

site: [Autumn leaves](https://mini-ielts.com/441/reading/autumn-leaves)

> One of the most **captivating** natural events of the year in many areas throughout North America is the turning of the leaves in the fall.

**captivate** /ˈkæp.tə.veɪt/ *verb.* 使入迷

> As fall approaches in the northern **hemisphere**, the amount of solar energy available declines considerably.

**hemisphere** /ˈhem.ə.sfɪr/ *noun.* 半球体

> So rather than maintaining the now **redundant** leaves throughout the winter, the tree saves its precious resources and discards them.

**redundant** /rɪˈdʌn.dənt/ *adjective.* 被裁减的; 多余的

> it is created by anthocyanins, water-**soluble** plant **pigments** reflecting the red to blue range of the visible **spectrum**.

**soluble** /ˈsɑːl.jə.bəl/ *adjective.* 可溶的

**pigment** /ˈpɪɡ.mənt/ *noun.* 色素; 颜料

**spectrum** /ˈspek.trəm/ *noun.* 光谱

> Perhaps the most **plausible** suggestion as to why leaves would go to the trouble of making anthocyanins when they’re busy packing up for the winter is the theory known as the ‘light screen’ hypothesis.

**plausible** /ˈplɑː.zə.bəl/ *adjective.* 貌似合理的

> It sounds **paradoxical**, because the idea behind this hypothesis is that the red pigment is made in autumn leaves to protect chlorophyll, the light-absorbing chemical, from too much light.

**paradoxical** /ˌper.əˈdɑːk.sɪ.kəl/ *adjective.* 自相矛盾的

> Why protect chlorophyll at a time when the tree is breaking it down to **salvage** as much of it as possible?

**salvage** /ˈsæl.vɪdʒ/ *verb.* 打捞; 抢救

> Chlorophyll, although **exquisitely** evolved to capture the energy of sunlight, can sometimes be **overwhelmed** by it, especially in situations of drought, low temperatures, or nutrient **deficiency**.

**exquisitely** /ɪkˈskwɪz.ɪt.li/ *adverb.* 优雅地; 精致地; 准确地;

**overwhelm** /ˌoʊ.vɚˈwelm/ *verb.* 吞没; 压垮; 战胜

**deficiency** /dɪˈfɪʃ.ən.si/ *noun.* 缺乏; 缺点

> The energy absorbed by the chlorophyll molecules of the unstable autumn leaf is not immediately channelled into useful products and processes, as it would be in an **intact** summer leaf.

**intact** /ɪnˈtækt/ *adjective.* 完好无损的

## Beyond the blue horizon

site: [Beyond the blue horizon](https://mini-ielts.com/442/reading/beyond-the-blue-horizon)

> An important archaeological discovery on the island of Efate in the Pacific **archipelago** of Vanuatu has **revealed** traces of an ancient seafaring people, the distant ancestors of todays, Polynesians.

**archipelago** /ˌɑːr.kəˈpel.ə.ɡoʊ/ *noun.* 群岛

**reveal** /rɪˈviːl/ *verb.* 披露

> An agricultural worker, digging in the grounds of a **derelict** plantation, scraped open a grave – the first of dozens in a burial ground some 3,000 years old.It is the oldest **cemetery** ever found in the Pacific islands, and it harbors the remains of an ancient people archaeologists call the Lapita.

**derelict** /ˈder.ə.lɪkt/ *adjective.* 破败的; 荒废的

**cemetery** /ˈsem.ə.ter.i/ *noun.* 墓地

> They were also pioneers who carried with them everything they would need to build new lives – their **livestock**, **taro** seedlings and stone tools.

**livestock** /ˈlaɪv.stɑːk/ *noun.* 牲畜

- **busbandry** /ˈhʌz.bən.dri/ *noun.* 畜牧业

**taro** /ˈter.oʊ/ *noun.* 芋头

> The remains of 62 individuals have been uncovered so far, and archaeologists were also **thrilled** to find six complete Lapita pots.

**thrilled** /θrɪld/ *adjective.* 震撼的

> Did all Pacific islanders **spring from** one source or many?

**spring from** 起源

> This represents the best opportunity we’ve had yet,’ says Spriggs, ‘to find out who the Lapita actually were, where they came from, and who their closest **descendants** are today.’

**descendant** /dɪˈsen.dənt/ *noun.* 后代

>  There is one **stubborn** question for which archaeology has yet to provide any answers: how did the Lapita accomplish the ancient equivalent of a moon landing, many times over?

**stubborn** /ˈstʌb.ɚn/ *adjective.* 执拗的; 固执的

> The Lap it as **thrust** into the Pacific was eastward, against the **prevailing** trade winds, Irwin notes.

**thrust** /θrʌst/ *verb.* 猛推

**prevailing** /prɪˈveɪ.lɪŋ/ *adjective.* 占优势的

> All this **presupposes** one **essential** detail, says Atholl Anderson, professor of prehistory at the Australian National University: the Lapita had mastered the advanced art of sailing against the wind.

**presuppose** /ˌpriː.səˈpoʊz/ *verb.* 以...为前提

**essential** /ɪˈsen.ʃəl/ *adjective.* 完全必要的

