---
title: Cambridge English 10-4
layout: post
tags: ['IELTS', 'Reading']
---

## The megafires of California

site: [The megafires of California](https://mini-ielts.com/460/reading/the-megafires-of-california)

> Wildfires are becoming an increasing **menace** in the western United States, with Southern California being the hardest hit area.

**menace** /ˈmen.əs/ *noun.* 威胁; 恐吓 +1

> The wildfires themselves, experts say, are generally hotter, faster, and spread more **erratically** than in the past.

**erratically** /ɪˈræt̬.ɪ.kəl.i/ *adverb.* 不稳定地

> The unintentional consequence has been to **halt** the natural **eradication** of underbrush, now the primary fuel for megafires.

**halt** /hɑːlt/ *verb.* 使...停下来

**eradication** /ɪˌræd.əˈkeɪ.ʃən/ *noun.* 根除; 杜绝 +2

> Stung in the past by criticism of **bungling** that allowed fires to spread when they might have been contained, personnel are meeting the **peculiar** challenges of neighborhood - and canyon- hopping fires better than previously, observers say.

**bungling** /ˈbʌŋ.ɡlɪŋ/ *adjective.* 笨拙的; 拙劣的

**peculiar** /pɪˈkjuːl.jɚ/ *adjective.* 奇怪的; 古怪的

> Firefighters’ unions that in the past complained of **dilapidated** equipment, old fire engines, and **insufficient** blueprints for fire safety are now praising the state's commitment, noting that funding for firefighting has increased, despite huge cuts in many other programs.

**dilapidated** /dɪˈlæp.ə.deɪ.t̬ɪd/ *adjective.* 破旧的

**insufficient** /ˌɪn.səˈfɪʃ.ənt/ *adjective.* 不足的; 不充分的

- **sufficient** 充分的

> Besides providing money to upgrade the fire engines that must **traverse** the **mammoth** state and wind along **serpentine** canyon roads, the state has invested in better command-and-control facilities as well as in the strategies to run them.

**traverse** /trəˈvɝːs/ *verb.* 穿过 +1

**mammoth** /ˈmæm.əθ/ *adjective.* 巨大的

**serpentine** /ˈsɝː.pən.taɪn/ *adjective.* 弯弯曲曲的

> In the fire **sieges** of earlier years, we found that other **jurisdictions** and states were willing to offer mutual-aid help, but we were not able to communicate adequately with them

**siege** /siːdʒ/ *noun.* 周围

**jurisdiction** /ˌdʒʊr.ɪsˈdɪk.ʃən/ *noun.* 管辖权; 管辖区域 +1

## Second nature

site: [Second nature](https://mini-ielts.com/461/reading/second-nature)

> **Cultivating** such qualities will help you realise your full potential.

**cultivate** /ˈkʌl.tə.veɪt/ *verb.* 培养

> **Inherently** **introverted**, he realised early on that as an academic, his **reticence** would prove **disastrous** in the lecture hall. So he learned to be more outgoing and to entertain his classes. 'Now my **extroverted** behaviour is **spontaneous**,' he says.

**inherently** /ɪnˈhɪr.ənt.li/ *adverb.* 内在地

**introverted** /ˈɪn.trə.vɝː.t̬ɪd/ *adjective.* 内向的

**reticence** /ˈret̬.ə.səns/ *noun.* 缄默

**disastrous** /dɪˈzæs.trəs/ *adjective.* 灾难性的

**extrovert** /ˈek.strə.vɝːt/ *noun.* 性格外向的人

**spontaneous** /spɑːnˈteɪ.ni.əs/ *adjective.* 主动的; 自发的

> On campus, he quickly found that beyond ordinary counselling, the university had no services for students who were undergoing physical **rehabilitation** and suffering from depression like him.

**rehabilitation** /ˌriː.həˌbɪl.əˈteɪ.ʃən/ *noun.* 康复; 修复

> The physical **stamina** required for this sport is intense but the psychological demands are even more **overwhelming**.

**stamina** /ˈstæm.ə.nə/ *noun.* 耐力

**overwhelming** /ˌoʊ.vɚˈwel.mɪŋ/ *adjective* 压倒性的; 难以抑制的;

> The new manager was **intimidating** staff so Pedeleose carefully recorded each instance of bullying and eventually took the evidence to a senior director, knowing his own job security would be threatened.

**intimidate** /ɪnˈtɪm.ə.deɪt/ *verb.* 恐吓

> According to Cynthia Pury, a psychologist at Clemson University, Pedeleose's story proves the point that courage is not motivated by fearlessness, but by **moral** **obligation**.

**moral** /ˈmɔːr.əl/ *adjective.* 道德的

**obligation** /ˌɑː.bləˈɡeɪ.ʃən/ *noun.* 义务; 责任

## When evolution runs backwards

site: [When evolution runs backwards](https://mini-ielts.com/462/reading/when-evolution-runs-backwards)

> For the better part of a century, most biologists have been **reluctant** to use those words, mindful of a principle of evolution that says ‘evolution cannot run backwards.

**reluctant** /rɪˈlʌk.tənt/ *adjective* 不情愿的

> Another more **intriguing** possibility is that the genetic information needed to make toes somehow survived for tens or perhaps hundreds of millions of years in the lizards and was reactivated.

**intrigue** /ɪnˈtriːɡ/ *verb.* 引起...的好奇 +2

- **intriguing** /ɪnˈtriː.ɡɪŋ/ *adjective.* 引起兴趣的

