---
title: Cambridge English 11-1
layout: post
tags: ['IELTS', 'Reading']
---

## Crop-growing skyscrapers

site: [Crop-growing skyscrapers](https://mini-ielts.com/386/reading/crop-growing-skyscrapers)

> If successfully implemented, **proponents** claim, vertical farms offer the promise of urban renewal, **sustainable** production of a safe and varied food supply (through year-round production of all crops), and the eventual repair of ecosystems that have been sacrificed for horizontal farming.

**proponent** /prəˈpoʊ.nənt/ *none.* 倡导者

**sustainable** /səˈsteɪ.nə.bəl/ *adjective.* 能维持的; 可持续性的 +3

> Along the way, we **despoiled** most of the land we worked, often turning **verdant**, natural ecozones into **semi-arid** deserts.

**despoil** /dɪˈspɔɪl/ *verb.* 抢劫; 掠夺

**verdant** /ˈvɝː.dənt/ *adjecitve.* 碧绿的

**semi-arid** /ˌsem.iˈer.ɪd/ *adjective.* 半干旱的

> Massive floods, long droughts, hurricanes and severe **monsoons** **take their toll** each year, destroying millions of tons of valuable crops.

**monsoon** /mɑːnˈsuːn/ *noun.* 雨季

**toll** /toʊl/ *noun.* 通行费; 伤亡人数; 毁坏; 长途电话费

- **to pay a tall** 缴纳通行费
- **the death toll** 死亡人数
- **to take its toll on** 产生恶果

> A major **drawback** of vertical farming, however, is that the plants would require artificial light.

**drawback** /ˈdrɑː.bæk/ *noun.* 缺点

> Generating enough light could be **prohibitively** expensive, unless cheap, renewable energy is available, and this appears to be rather a future aspiration than a likelihood for the near future.

**prohibitively** /proʊˈhɪb.ə.t̬ɪv.li/ *adverb.* 使人望而却步的

> At the moment, though, more needs to be done to reduce the **detrimental** impact it would have on the environment, particularly as regards the use of energy.

**detrimental** /ˌdet.rəˈmen.t̬əl/ *adjective.* 有害的 +1

## The Falkirk Wheel

site: [The Falkirk Wheel](https://mini-ielts.com/387/reading/the-falkirk-wheel)

> When the project was launched in 1994, the British Waterways authority were keen to create a dramatic twenty-first-century landmark which would not only be a fitting commemoration of the Millennium, but also a lasting symbol of the economic regeneration of the region.

**commemoration** /kəˌmem.əˈreɪ.ʃən/ *noun.* 纪念

- **in commemoration of** 为纪念

> The unique shape of the structure is claimed to have been inspired by various sources, both manmade and natural, most **notably** a Celtic double headed axe, but also the vast turning **propeller** of a ship, the ribcage of a whale or the spine of a fish.

**notably** /ˈnoʊ.t̬ə.bli/ *adverb.* 尤其

**propeller** /prəˈpel.ɚ/ *noun.* 螺旋桨

**ribcage** /ˈrɪbˌkeɪdʒ/ *noun.* 胸廓

> A team there carefully assembled the 1,200 tonnes of steel, **painstakingly** fitting the pieces together to an accuracy of just 10 mm to ensure a perfect final fit.

**painstakingly** /ˈpeɪnzˌteɪ.kɪŋ.li/ *adverb.* 细心地

> In the summer of 2001, the structure was then **dismantled** and transported on 35 **lorries** to Falkirk, before all being bolted back together again on the ground, and finally lifted into position in five large sections by **crane**.

**dismantle** /dɪˈsmæn.t̬əl/ *verb.* 拆除; 逐步废除

**lorry** /ˈlɔːr.i/ *noun.* 卡车

**crane** /kreɪn/ *noun.* 起重机; 伸长

- **to crane one's neck** 伸长脖子

> The Wheel would need to **withstand** **immense** and constantly changing stresses as it rotated, so to make the structure more robust, the steel sections were bolted rather than **welded** together.

**withstand** /wɪðˈstænd/ *verb.* 承受住

**immense** /ɪˈmens/ *adjective.* 巨大的; 无限的; 严重的 +1

**weld** /weld/ *verb.* 焊接

> Two **diametrically** opposed water-filled '**gondolas**', each with a capacity of 360,000 litres, are fitted between the ends of the arms.

**diametrically** /ˌdaɪ.əˈmet.rɪ.kəl.i/ *adverb.* 完全的; 在直径上

- **to be diametrically opposed to** 与...完全相反

**gondola** /ˈɡɑːn.dəl.ə/ *noun.* 吊舱; 货架

## Reducing the Effects of Climate Change

site: [Reducing the Effects of Climate Change](https://mini-ielts.com/388/reading/reducing-the-effects-of-climate-change)

> Consequently, an increasing number of scientists are beginning to explore the **alternative** of geo-engineering — a term which generally refers to the intentional large-scale **manipulation** of the environment.

**alternative** /ɑːlˈtɝː.nə.t̬ɪv/ *adjective.* 可供替代的

- **alternatively** /ɑːlˈtɝː.nə.t̬ɪv.li/ *adverb.* 或

**manipulation** /məˌnɪp.jəˈleɪ.ʃən/ *noun.* 操作; 操控

> The majority of geo-engineering projects so far carried out — which include planting forests in deserts and **depositing** iron in the ocean to **stimulate** the growth of **algae** - have focused on achieving a general cooling of the Earth.

**deposit** /dɪˈpɑː.zɪt/ *verb.* 放下

**stimulate** /ˈstɪm.jə.leɪt/ *verb.* 刺激; 激励 +1

- **to stimulate sb. to do sth.** 激励某人做某事

**algae** /ˈæl.dʒiː/ *noun.* 水藻

> The reasoning is that if you **replenish** the ice sheets and frozen waters of the high latitudes, more light will be reflected back into space, so reducing the warming of the oceans and atmosphere.

**replenish** /rɪˈplen.ɪʃ/ *verb.* 再装满; 补充

> Scientists have also **scrutinised** whether it's possible to preserve the ice sheets of Greenland with reinforced high-tension cables, preventing icebergs from moving into the sea.

**scrutinize** /ˈskruː.t̬ən.aɪz/ *verb.* 仔细观察 +1

- **scrutiny** /ˈskruː.t̬ən.i/ *noun.* 仔细观察 +1

> Angel says that his plan is ‘no **substitute** for developing renewable energy: the only permanent solution'.

**substitute** /ˈsʌb.stə.tuːt/ *verb.* 替代者 +1

> Even leading **conservation** organisations see the value of investigating the potential of geo-engineering.

**conservation** /ˌkɑːn.sɚˈveɪ.ʃən/ *noun.* 保护; 节约 +1
