---
title: Cambridge English 11-2
layout: post
tags: ['IELTS', 'Reading']
---

## Raising the Mary Rose

site: [Raising the Mary Rose](https://mini-ielts.com/393/reading/raising-the-mary-rose#)

> Because of the way the ship sank, nearly all of the starboard half survived **intact**.

**intact** /ɪnˈtækt/ *adjective.* 完好无损的

> During the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, the entire site became covered with a layer of hard grey clay, which minimised further erosion.

**erosion** /ɪˈroʊ.ʒən/ *noun.* 侵蚀 +1

> Then, on 16 June 1836, some fishermen in the Solent found that their equipment was caught on an underwater **obstruction**, which turned out to be the Mary Rose.

**obstruction** /əbˈstrʌk.ʃən/ *noun.* 堵筛; 堵筛物

> Diver John Deane happened to be exploring another **sunken** ship nearby, and the fishermen approached him, asking him to free their gear.

**sunken** /ˈsʌŋ.kən/ *adjective.* 沉入海底的; 凹陷的

> The Mary Rose then faded into **obscurity** for another hundred years.

**obscurity** /əbˈskjʊr.ə.t̬i/ *noun.* 默默无闻

> But in 1965, military historian and **amateur** diver Alexander McKee, in **conjunction** with the British Sub-Aqua Club, initiated a project called ‘Solent Ships'.

**amateur** /ˈæm.ə.tʃɚ/ *adjective.* 业余爱好者

**conjunction** /kənˈdʒʌŋk.ʃən/ *noun.* 结合

- **in conjunction with sb./sth.** 与某人/某物一起

> Further **excavations** revealed stray pieces of timber and an iron gun.

**excavation** /ˌeks.kəˈveɪ.ʃən/ *noun.* 挖掘; 开凿 +1

> While the original aim was to raise the hull if at all **feasible**, the operation was not given the go-ahead until January 1982, when all the necessary information was available.

**feasible** /ˈfiː.zə.bəl/ *adjective.* 可行的; 可能的

> The problem of the hull being sucked back downwards into the mud was overcome by using 12 **hydraulic** **jacks**.

**hydraulic** /haɪˈdrɒl.ɪk/ *adjective.* 液压的

**jack** /dʒæk/ *noun.* 千斤顶

> It was only when the hull was hanging freely from the lifting frame, clear of the seabed and the **suction** effect of the surrounding mud, that the salvage operation progressed to the second stage.

**suction** /ˈsʌk.ʃən/ *noun.* 吸力

> The lifting cradle was designed to fit the hull jusing archaeological survey drawings, and was fitted with air bags to provide additional **cushioning** for the hull's delicate timber framework.

**cushion** /ˈkʊʃ.ən/ *noun.* 垫子; 缓冲物

## What destroyed the civilisation of Easter Island?

site: [What destroyed the civilisation of Easter Island?](https://mini-ielts.com/394/reading/what-destroyed-the-civilisation-of-easter-island)

> Bestselling Swiss author Erich von Daniken believed they were built by stranded **extraterrestrials**.

**extraterrestrial** /ˌek.strə.təˈres.tri.əl/ *adjective.* 外星球的

- **terrestrial** /təˈres.tri.əl/  *adjective.* 地球的; 陆生的

> When the Europeans arrived, Rapa Nui was grassland, with only a few **scrawny** trees.

**scrawny** /ˈskrɔː.ni/ *adjective.* 瘦巴巴的

> In the 1970s and 1980s, though, researchers found **pollen** preserved in lake **sediments**, which proved the island had been covered in **lush** **palm** forests for thousands of years.

**pollen** /ˈpɑː.lən/ *noun.* 花粉

**sediment** /ˈsed.ə.mənt/ *noun.* 沉淀物

**lush** /lʌʃ/ *adjective.* 茂盛的

**palm** /pɑːm/ *noun.* 棕榈树

> US scientist Jared Diamond believes that the Rapanui people - **descendants** of Polynesian settlers - **wrecked** their own environment.

**wreck** /rek/ *verb.* 失事; 毁坏

> They had unfortunately settled on an extremely **fragile** island - dry, cool, and too remote to be properly **fertilised** by windblown volcanic ash.

**fragile** /ˈfrædʒ.əl/ *adjective.* 易碎的; 脆弱的

**fertilize** /ˈfɝː.t̬əl.aɪz/ *verb.* 使...受粉

> As trees became **scarce** and they could no longer construct wooden canoes for fishing, they ate birds.

**scarce** /skers/ *adjective.* 稀有的

> Before Europeans arrived, the Rapanui had descended into civil war and **cannibalism**, he maintains.

**cannibalism** /ˈkæn.ə.bəl.ɪ.zəm/ *adjective.* 同类相食

> The collapse of their isolated civilisation, Diamond writes, is a ’worst-case **scenario** for what may lie ahead of us in our own future’.

**scenario** /səˈner.i.oʊ/ *noun.* 设想的情况

- **worst-case scenario** 最糟糕的情况

> Diamond interprets them as power displays by **rival** chieftains who, trapped on a remote little island, lacked other ways of asserting their **dominance**.

**rival** /ˈraɪ.vəl/ *noun.* 竞争对手

**dominance** /ˈdɑː.mə.nəns/ *noun.* 控制; 支配地位

> Diamond thinks they laid the moai on wooden **sledges**, **hauled** over log rails, but that required both a lot of wood and a lot of people.

**sledge** /sledʒ/ *noun.* 雪橇

**haul** /hɑːl/ *verb.* 拖

> When the wood was gone and civil war began, the islanders began **toppling** the moai.

**topple** /ˈtɑː.pəl/ *verb.* 使...倒下

> Archaeologists Terry Hunt of the University of Hawaii and Carl Lipo of California State University agree that Easter Island lost its lush forests and that it was an ‘ecological **catastrophe**' - but they believe the islanders themselves weren’t to blame.

**catastrophe** /kəˈtæs.trə.fi/ *noun.* 灾难

> Archaeological excavations indicate that the Rapanui went to heroic efforts to protect the resources of their wind-lashed, **infertile** fields.

**infertile** /ɪnˈfɝː.t̬əl/ *adjective.* 贫瘠的

> They built thousands of circular stone windbreaks and gardened inside them, and used broken volcanic rocks to keep the soil **moist**. In short, Hunt and Lipo argue, the prehistoric Rapanui were pioneers of sustainable farming.

**moist** /mɔɪst/ *adjective.* 湿润的

> Hunt and Lipo **contend** that moai-building was an activity that helped keep the peace between islanders.

**contend** /kənˈtend/ *verb.* 斗争; 竞争; 主张

> Recent experiments indicate that as few as 18 people could, with three strong ropes and a bit of practice, easily **manoeuvre** a 1,000 kg moai replica a few hundred metres.

**manoeuvre** /məˈnuː.vɚ/ *noun./verb.* 熟练的移动

> They would have prevented the reseeding of the slow-growing palm trees and thereby doomed Rapa Nui’s forest, even without the settlers’ campaign of **deforestation**.

**deforestation** /diːˌfɔːr.əˈsteɪ.ʃən/ *noun.* 砍伐森林

> They think its population grew rapidly and then remained more or less stable until the arrival of the Europeans, who introduced deadly diseases to which islanders had no immunity.

**...grew rapidly and then remained more or less stable until... **

> Rather than a case of **abject** failure, Rapu Nui is an unlikely story of success

**abject** /ˈæb.dʒekt/ *adjective.* 悲惨的; 卑贱的

## Neuroaesthetics

site: [Neuroaesthetics](https://mini-ielts.com/395/reading/neuroaesthetics)

> The **blurred** imagery of **Impressionist** paintings seems to **stimulate** the brain's **amygdala**, for instance.

**blurred** /blɝːd *adjective.* 模糊不清的

- **blur** /blɝː/ *noun.* 模糊形状

**impressionist** /ɪmˈpreʃ.ən.ɪst/ *noun.* 印象派作家/画家

**stimulate** /ˈstɪm.jə.leɪt/ *verb.* 刺激; 激发 +1

**amygdala** /əˈmɪɡ.də.lə/ *noun.* (one of two parts of the brain that affect how people feel emotions, especially fear and pleasure)

> Could the same approach also shed light on abstract twentieth-century pieces, from Mondrian's geometrical blocks of colour, to Pollock's seemingly **haphazard** arrangements of splashed paint on canvas?

**haphazard** /ˌhæpˈhæz.ɚd/ *adjective.* 杂乱的; 随意的 +1

> **Sceptics** believe that people claim to like such works simply because they are famous.

**sceptic** /ˈskep.tɪk/ *noun.* 怀疑论者

> We certainly do have an **inclination** to follow the crowd. When asked to make simple **perceptual** decisions such as matching a shape to its rotated image, for example, people often choose a definitively wrong answer if they see others doing the same.

**inclination** /ˌɪn.kləˈneɪ.ʃən/ *noun.* 意愿

**perceptual** /pɚˈsep.tʃu.əl/ *adjective.* (relating to the ability to notice something or come to an opinion about something using your senses:)

> It is easy to imagine that this **mentality** would have even more impact on a fuzzy concept like art appreciation, where there is no right or wrong answer.

**mentality** /menˈtæl.ə.t̬i/ *noun.* 心态

> It would seem that the brain sees these images as puzzles, and the harder it is to **decipher** the meaning, the more rewarding is the moment of recognition.

**decipher** /dɪˈsaɪ.fɚ/ *verb.* 破译

> Mondrian's works are **deceptively** simple, but eye-tracking studies confirm that they are **meticulously** composed, and that simpiy rotating a piece **radically** changes the way we view it.

**deceptively** /dɪˈsep.t̬ɪv.li/ *adverb.* 有欺骗性地 +1

**meticulously** /məˈtɪk.jə.ləs.li/ *adverb.* 周密地

**radically** /ˈræd.ɪ.kəl.i/ *adverb.* 根本地

- **radical** /ˈræd.ɪ.kəl/ *adjective.* 激进的; 根本的; 彻底的

> Vartanian also found that changing the composition of the paintings reduced activation in those brain areas linked with meaning and **interpretation**.

**interpretation** /ɪnˌtɝː.prəˈteɪ.ʃən/ *noun.* 理解

> In another experiment, Alex Forsythe of the University of Liverpool analysed the visual **intricacy** of different pieces of art, and her results suggest that many artists use a key level of detail to please the brain.

**intricacy** /ˈɪn.trə.kə.si/ *noun.* 错综复杂

- **intricate** /ˈɪn.trə.kət/ *adjective.* 错综复杂的

> What's more, appealing pieces both abstract and representational, show signs of 'fractals' - repeated **motifs** **recurring** in different scales, fractals are common throughout nature, for example in the shapes of mountain peaks or the branches of trees.

**motif** /moʊˈtiːf/ *noun.* 装饰图案 +1

**recurring** /rɪˈkɝː.ɪŋ/ *adjective.* 反复出现的; 循环的

- **recur** /rɪˈkɝː/ *verb.* 再现; 复发

> This may be down to our brain's 'mirror neurons', which are known to **mimic** others' actions.

**mimic** /ˈmɪm.ɪk/ *verb.* 模仿

> The **hypothesis** will need to be **thoroughly** tested, however. It might even be the case that we could use neuroaesthetic studies to understand the **longevity** of some pieces of artwork.

**hypothesis** /haɪˈpɑː.θə.sɪs/ *noun.* 假说

**thoroughly** /ˈθɝː.ə.li/ *adverb.* 彻底地

**longevity** /lɑːnˈdʒev.ə.t̬i/ *noun.* 长寿
