---
title: Cambridge English 11-3
layout: post
tags: ['IELTS', 'Reading']
---

## The story of silk

site:[The story of silk](https://mini-ielts.com/400/reading/the-story-of-silk)

> The history of the world’s most **luxurious** fabric, from ancient China to the present day

**luxurious** /lʌɡˈʒʊr.i.əs/ *adjective.* 豪华的; 奢侈的

> She also **devised** a special reel to draw the fibres from the cocoon into a single thread so that they would be strong enough to be **woven** into fabric.

**devise** /dɪˈvaɪz/ *verb.* 设计; 发明

**woven** /ˈwoʊ.vən/ *verb.* 织

> While it is unknown just how much of this is true, it is certainly known that silk **cultivation** has existed in China for several millennia.

**cultivation** /ˌkʌl.təˈveɪ.ʃən/ *noun.* 培养; 耕种

> Originally, silkworm farming was **solely** restricted to women, and it was they who were responsible for the growing, harvesting and weaving.

**solely** /ˈsoʊl.li/ *adverb.* 完全地

> Silk quickly grew into a symbol of status, and originally, only royalty were **entitled** to have clothes made of silk.

**entitle** /ɪnˈtaɪ.t̬əl/ *adjective.* 享有权利

> The rules were **gradually** relaxed over the years until finally during the Qing Dynasty (1644—1911 AD), even peasants, the lowest **caste**, were also entitled to wear silk.】

**gradually** /ˈɡrædʒ.u.ə.li/ *adverb.* 逐渐地 +1

**caste** /kæst/ *noun.* 种姓制度

- **to lose caste** 失去社会地位

> Silk was also used as **diplomatic** gifts by the emperor.

**diplomatic** /ˌdɪp.ləˈmæt̬.ɪk/ *adjective.* 外交的

- **diploma** /dɪˈploʊ.mə/ *noun.* 毕业文凭

> Demand for this **exotic** fabric eventually created the **lucrative** trade route now known as the Silk Road, taking silk westward and bringing gold, silver and wool to the East.

**exotic** /ɪɡˈzɑː.t̬ɪk/ *adjective.* 来自异国的 +3

**lucrative** /ˈluː.krə.t̬ɪv/ *adjective.* 赚大钱的

> The Byzantines were as secretive as the Chinese, however, and for many centuries the weaving and trading of silk fabric was a strict **imperial** **monopoly**.

**imperial** /ɪmˈpɪr.i.əl/ *adjective.* 帝国的

**monopoly** /məˈnɑː.pəl.i/ *noun.* 垄断

> Even now, silk processed in the province of Como in northern Italy enjoys an **esteemed** reputation.

**esteemed** /ɪˈstim/ *adjective.* 受尊重的

> The two world wars, which interrupted the supply of raw material from Japan, also **stifled** the European silk industry.

**stifle** /ˈstaɪ.fəl/ *verb.* 扼杀; 阻止

## Great Migrations

site:[Great Migrations](https://mini-ielts.com/401/reading/great-migrations)

> They are **prolonged** movements that carry animals outside familiar habitats;

**prolonged** /prəˈlɑːŋd/ *adjective.* 持久的; 长期的

- **prolong** /prəˈlɑːŋ/ *verb.* 延长

> And one more: migrating animals maintain an intense **attentiveness** to the greater mission, which keeps them undistracted by **temptations** and **undeterred** by challenges that would turn other animals aside. 

**attentiveness** /əˈten.t̬ɪv.nəs/ *noun.* 专心

**temptation** /tempˈteɪ.ʃən/ *noun.* 诱惑

**undeterred** /ˌʌn.dɪˈtɝːd/ *adjective.* 不屈不挠的

> While local **gulls** will dive **voraciously** for such handouts, the **tern** flies on.

**gull** /ɡʌl/ *noun.* 海鸥(a bird that lives near the coast with black and white or gray and white feathers)

**voraciously** /vəˈreɪ.ʃəs.li/ *adverb.* 狼吞虎咽地; 大量地

**tern** /tɝːn/ *noun.* 燕鸥(a small black and white sea bird with long, pointed wings and a divided tail)

> its **undivided** intent is arrival.

**undivided** /ˌʌn.dɪˈvaɪ.dɪd/ *adjective.* 专一的

> Reaching some **gravelly** coastline in the Arctic, upon which other arctic terns have converged, will serve its larger purpose as shaped by evolution: finding a place, a time, and a set of circumstances in which it can successfully **hatch** and **rear** **offspring**.

**gravelly** /ˈɡræv.əl.i/ *adjective.* 粗哑的; 由砂砾构成的

**hatch** /hætʃ/ *verb.* 孵 *noun.* 开口; 舱口

**rear** /rɪr/ *verb.* 抚养; 喂养 *adjective.* 后部的 *noun.* 后部

**offspring** /ˈɑːf.sprɪŋ/ *noun.* 幼崽

> So can the movement of aphids when, having **depleted** the young leaves on one food plant, their offspring then fly **onward** to a different host plant, with no one aphid ever returning to where it started.

**deplete** /dɪˈpliː.t̬ɪ/ *adjective.* 耗尽

**onward** /ˈɑːn.wɚd/ *adjective.* 继续的; 向前的

> The pronghorn, which **resembles** an antelope, though they are unrelated, is the fastest land mammal of the New World.

**resemble** /rɪˈzem.bəl/ *verb.* 像; 类似于 +1

> These pronghorn are notable for the invariance of their migration route and the **severity** of its constriction at three bottlenecks.

**severity** /səˈver.ə.t̬i/ *noun.* 严重; 剧烈 +1

> At one of the bottlenecks, forested hills rise to form a V, leaving a **corridor** of open ground only about 150 metres wide, filled with private homes.

**corridor** /ˈkɔːr.ə.dɚ/ *noun.* 走廊

> Increasing development is leading toward a crisis for the pronghorn, threatening to **choke** off their passageway.

**choke** /tʃoʊk/ *verb.* 掐住... 脖子; 使窒息

> We will require wisdom and **resoluteness** to ensure that migrating species can continue their journeying a while longer.

**resoluteness** /ˈrɛzəˌlutnəs/ *noun.* 坚定

- **resolution** /ˌrɛzəˈluʃ(ə)n/ *noun.* 坚定; 决心
- **resolute** /ˈrɛzəˌlut/ *adjective.* 有决心的
- **resolutely** /ˈrez.ə.luːt.li/ *adverb.* 坚决地

## Adventures in mathematical reasoning

site:[Adventures in mathematical reasoning](https://mini-ielts.com/402/reading/adventures-in-mathematical-reasoning)

> Thus all readers will have the chance to participate in a mathematical experience, to appreciate the beauty of mathematics, and to become familiar with its logical, yet **intuitive**, style of thinking.

**intuitive** /ɪnˈtuː.ɪ.t̬ɪv/ *adjective.* 凭直觉的

> I hope this book will help bridge that **notorious** gap that separates the two cultures: the humanities and the sciences, or should I say the right brain (intuitive) and the left brain (analytical, numerical).

**notorious** /noʊˈtɔːr.i.əs/ *adjective.* 臭名昭著的; 声名狼藉的

> As I wrote, I kept in mind two types of readers: those who enjoyed mathematics until they were turned off by an unpleasant episode, usually around fifth grade, and mathematics **aficionados**, who will find much that is new throughout the book.

**aficionado** /əˌfɪʃ.i.əˈnɑː.doʊ/ *noun.* 狂热爱好者

