---
title: Cambridge English 12-1
layout: post
tags: ['IELTS', 'Reading']
---

## Cork

site: [Cork](https://mini-ielts.com/1140/reading/cork)

>  It is tough, **elastic**, **buoyant**, and fire-resistant, and suitable for a wide range of purposes.

**elastic** /iˈlæs.tɪk/ *adjective.* 有弹性的

**buoyant** /ˈbɔɪ.ənt/ *adjective.* 有浮力的; 看涨的; 乐观的

> the ancient Egyptians sealed then sarcophagi (stone coffins) with cork, while the ancient Greeks and Romans used it for anything from **beehives** to sandals.

**beehive** /ˈbiː.haɪv/ *noun.* 蜂窝

**sandal** /ˈsæn.dəl/ *noun.* 凉鞋

> Like grape vines, the trees **thrive** in poor soil, putting down deep root in search of **moisture** and nutrients.

**thrive** /θraɪv/ *verb.* 茁壮成长

**moisture** /ˈmɔɪs.tʃɚ/ *noun.* 水汽; 潮气

> From the planting of a cork **sapling** to the first harvest takes 25 years, and a gap of approximately a decade must separate harvests from an individual tree.

**sapling** /ˈsæp.lɪŋ/ *noun.* 幼树

> Over 60% of cork then goes on to be made into traditional bottle stoppers, with most of the remainder being used in the construction trade, Corkboard and cork tiles are ideal for **thermal** and **acoustic** **insulation**, while **granules** of cork are used in the manufacture of **concrete**.

**thermal** /ˈθɝː.məl/ *adjective.* 热的; 保暖的

**acoustic** /əˈkuː.stɪk/ *adjective.* 音响的; 听觉的

**insulation** /ˌɪn.səˈleɪ.ʃən/ *noun.* 隔热; 隔音; 绝缘

**granule** /ˈɡræn.juːl/ *noun.* 颗粒

**concrete** /ˈkɑːn.kriːt/ *noun.* 混凝土

> Recent years have seen the end of the virtual **monopoly** of cork as the material for bottle stoppers, due to concerns about the effect it may have on the contents of the bottle.

**monopoly** /məˈnɑː.pəl.i/ *noun.* 垄断; 独占

> Moreover, cork forests are a resource which support local **biodiversity**, and prevent **desertification** in the regions where they are planted.

**biodiversity** /ˌbaɪ.oʊ.dɪˈvɝː.sə.t̬i/ *noun.* 生物多样性

**desertification** /dɪˌzɝː.t̬ə.fəˈkeɪ.ʃən/ *noun.* 沙漠化

## Collecting as a hobby

site: [Collecting as a hobby](https://mini-ielts.com/1137/reading/collecting-as-a-hobby)

> Many forms of collecting have been **dignified** with a technical name: an archtophilist collects teddy bears, a philatelist collects postage stamps, and a deltiologist collects postcards.

**dignified** /ˈdɪɡ.nə.faɪd/ *adjective.* 尊贵的

> Similarly, in the 19th century, many collectors **amassed** **fossils**, animals and plants from around the globe, and their collections provided a vast amount of information about the natural world.

**amass** /əˈmæs/ *verb.* 聚集; 收集

**fossil** /ˈfɑː.səl/ *noun.* 化石; 老顽固

> Without those collections, our understanding would be greatly **inferior** to what it is.

**inferior** /ɪnˈfɪr.i.ɚ/ *adjective.* 较差的

> This might involve trying to see every **locomotive** of a particular type, using published data that identifies each one, and ticking off each engine as it is seen.

**locomotive** /ˌloʊ.kəˈmoʊ.t̬ɪv/ *noun.* 火车头

> Stamp collectors, for instance, arrange their stamps in albums, usually very neatly, organising their collection according to certain commonplace principles-perhaps by country in **alphabetical** order, or grouping stamps by what they depict -people, birds, maps, and so on.

**alphabetical** /ˌæl.fəˈbet̬.ɪ.kəl/ *adjective.* 按字母顺序的

## What’s the purpose of gaining knowledge?

site: [What’s the purpose of gaining knowledge?](https://mini-ielts.com/1138/reading/whats-the-purpose-of-gaining-knowledge)

> But what would the founders of these two institutions have thought of a course called '**Arson** for Profit'?

**arson** /ˈɑːr.sən/ *noun.* 纵火

> Naturally, the course is intended for prospective arson investigators, who can learn all the tricks of the trade for detecting whether a fire was **deliberately** set, discovering who did it, and establishing a chain of evidence for effective **prosecution** in a court of law.

**deliberately** /dɪˈlɪb.ɚ.ət.li/ *adverb.* 故意地 +1

**prosecution** /ˌprɑː.səˈkjuː.ʃən/ *noun.* 起诉

> The regular instructor is a colleague who appreciates the kind of **ethical** **perspective** I can bring as a philosopher.

**ethical** /ˈeθ.ɪ.kəl/ *adjective.* 伦理的

**perspective** /pɚˈspek.tɪv/ *noun.* 见解

> After all, a subject matter can have principles in the sense of being **codified**, having rules, as with football or chess, without being principled in the sense of being ethical.

**codified** /ˈkɑː.də.faɪ/ *verb.* 编纂的

> I made the suggestion, which may sound **downright** crazy in light of the evidence, that perhaps marketing is by definition principled.

**downright** /ˈdaʊn.raɪt/ *adjective.* 完全的

> Each person comes to the program and course with his or her own plans, and these need not even concern the **acquisition** of marketing expertise as such.

**acquisition** /ˌæk.wəˈzɪʃ.ən/ *noun.* 获得

> When I ask fire science students to **articulate** the end, or purpose, of their field, they eventually generalize to something like, ‘The safety and welfare of society,’ which seems right.

**articulate** /ɑːrˈtɪk.jə.lət/ *adjective.* 善于表达的

> Kant gives the example of a doctor and a poisoner, who use the identical knowledge to achieve their **divergent** ends.

**divergent** /dɪˈvɝː.dʒənt/ *adjective.* 有分歧的
