---
title: Cambridge English 12-2
layout: post
tags: ['IELTS', 'Reading']
---

## The risks agriculture faces in developing countries

site: [The risks agriculture faces in developing countries](https://mini-ielts.com/1139/reading/the-risks-agriculture-faces-in-developing-countries)

> At the same time, cultural values are highly **entrenched** in food and agricultural systems worldwide.

**entrenched** /ɪnˈtrentʃt/ *adjective.* 确立的

- **to be entrenched in sth.** 牢固确立于某物中

> Farmers everywhere face major risks; including extreme weather, long-term climate change, and price **volatility** in input and product markets.

**volatility** /ˌvɑː.ləˈtɪl.ə.t̬i/ *noun.* 挥发性; 变化无常; 不稳定

> However, smallholder farmers in developing countries must in addition deal with **adverse** environments, both natural, in terms of soil quality, rainfall, etc. and human, in terms of infrastructure, financial systems, markets, knowledge and technology.

**adverse** /ædˈvɝːs/ *adjective.* 不利的

> **Counter-intuitively**, hunger is **prevalent** among many smallholder farmers in the developing world.

**counter-intuitively** /ˌkaʊntər ɪnˈtuːɪtɪvli/ *adverb.* 反直觉地

**prevalent** /ˈprev.əl.ənt/ *adjective.* 流行的

> On the question of **mitigating** the risks farmers face, most essayists called for greater state intervention.

**mitigating** /ˈmɪt̬.ə.ɡeɪ.t̬ɪŋ/ *adjective.* 起缓和作用的

> Sophia Murphy, senior advisor to the Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy, suggested that the **procurement** and holding of stocks by governments can also help mitigate wild swings in food prices by **alleviating** uncertainties about market supply.

**procurement** /prəˈkjʊr.mənt/ *noun.* 购买

**alleviate** /əˈliː.vi.eɪt/ *verb.* 缓解

> Some participating authors and commentators argued in favour of community- based and **autonomous** risk management strategies through collective action groups, co-operatives or producers’ groups.

**autonomous** /ɑːˈtɑː.nə.məs/ *adjective.* 自治的

> Some participants explained that market price volatility is often worsened by the presence of intermediary purchasers who, taking advantage of farmers’ vulnerability, dictate prices.

**dictate** /ˈdɪk.teɪt/ *verb.* 支配; 命令

## The Lost City

site: [The Lost City](https://mini-ielts.com/1141/reading/the-lost-city)

> the exploration of the remote **hinterland** to the west of Cusco, the old capital of the Inca empire in the Andes mountains of Peru.

**hinterland** /ˈhɪn.t̬ɚ.lænd/ *noun.* 偏僻地区

> Cusco lies on a high **plateau** at an elevation of more than 3,000 metres, and Bingham’s plan was to descend from this plateau along the valley of the Urubamba river, which takes a **circuitous** route down to the Amazon and passes through an area of dramatic **canyons** and mountain ranges.

**plateau** /plætˈoʊ/ *noun.* 高原; 稳定期

- **to reach a plateau** 稳定下来

**circuitous** /sɝːˈkjuː.ə.t̬əs/ *adjective.* 迂回的

**canyon** /ˈkæn.jən/ *noun.* 峡谷

> When Bingham and his team set off down the Urubamba in late July, they had an advantage over travellers who had **preceded** them: a track had recently been blasted down the valley canyon to enable rubber to be brought up by **mules** from the jungle.

**preceded** /priːˈsiːd/ *verb.* 在前面; 先于

**rubber** /ˈrʌb.ɚ/ *noun.* 天然橡胶

**mule** /mjuːl/ *noun.* 骡

> The day began slowly, with Bingham trying to arrange sufficient mules for the next stage of the **trek**.

**trek** /trek/ *verb.* 长途跋涉

> The morning was **dull** and damp, and Bingham also seems to have been less than **keen** on the prospect of climbing the hill.

**dull** /dʌl/ *adjective.* 暗淡的

**keen** /kiːn/ *adjective.* 渴望的

> Then there’s a sense of mounting discovery as he comes across great **sweeps** of **terraces**, then a **mausoleum**, followed by monumental **staircases** and, finally, the grand **ceremonial** buildings of Machu Picchu.

**sweep** /swiːp/ *noun.* 绵延弯曲的地带

**terrace** /ˈter.əs/ *noun.* 梯田; 庭院

**mausoleum** /ˌmɑː.zəˈliː.əm/ *noun.* 陵墓

**staircase** /ˈster.keɪs/ *noun.* 楼梯

**ceremonial** /ˌser.ɪˈmoʊ.ni.əl/ *adjective.* 礼仪的

> It seemed like an unbelievable dream the sight held me **spellbound**.

**spellbound** /ˈspel.baʊnd/ *adjective.* 入迷的

> We should remember, however, that Lost City of the Incas is a work of **hindsight**, not written until 1948, many years after his journey.

**hindsight** /ˈhaɪnd.saɪt/ *noun.* 事后聪明

> He wondered whether it could have been the birthplace of the very first Inca, Manco the Great, and whether it could also have been what **chroniclers** described as ‘the last city of the Incas’.

**chronicler** /ˈkrɑː.nɪ.klɚ/ *noun.* 编年史家

> This term refers to Vilcabamba the settlement where the Incas had fled from Spanish **invaders** in the 1530s.

**invader** /ɪnˈveɪ.dɚ/ *noun.* 侵略者

> One question that has **perplexed** visitors, historians and archaeologists alike ever since Bingham, is why the site seems to have been abandoned before the Spanish Conquest.

**perplex** /pɚˈpleks/ *verb.* 使困惑

## The Benefits of Being Bilingual

site: [The Benefits of Being Bilingual](https://mini-ielts.com/1142/reading/the-benefits-of-being-bilingual)

