---
title: Cambridge English 12-4
layout: post
tags: ['IELTS', 'Reading']
---

## The history of glass

site: [The history of glass](https://mini-ielts.com/1146/reading/the-history-of-glass)

> The glass made during this time was highly coloured due to the **impurities** of the raw material.

**impurity** /ɪmˈpjʊr.ə.t̬i/ *noun.* 杂质

> The new glass he created was softer and easier to decorate, and had a higher refractive index, adding to its brilliance and beauty, and it proved invaluable to the **optical** industry. It is thanks to Ravenscroft’s invention that optical **lenses**, astronomical telescopes, microscopes and the like became possible.

**optical** /ˈɑːp.tɪ.kəl/ *adjective.* 视觉的

**lens** /lenz/ *noun.* 透镜

> Before that time, heavy taxes had been placed on the amount of glass melted in a glasshouse, and were **levied** continuously from 1745 to 1845.

**levied** /ˈlev.i/ *verb.* 征收

> This revolutionary new building encouraged the use of glass in public, domestic and **horticultural** architecture.

**horticultural** /ˌhɔːr.t̬əˈkʌl.tʃɚ.əl/ *adjective.* 园艺的

> It has become a modem, hi-tech industry operating in a **fiercely** competitive global market where quality, design and service levels are critical to maintaining market share.

**fiercely** /ˈfɪrs.li/ *adverb.* 凶狠地

> It saves used glass containers being sent to **landfill**.

**landfill** /ˈlænd.fɪl/ *noun.* 垃圾填埋

## Bring back the big cats

site: [Bring back the big cats](https://mini-ielts.com/1147/reading/bring-back-the-big-cats)

> But the 2006 find, together with three others in Yorkshire and Scotland, is **compelling** evidence that the lynx and the mysterious llewyn were in fact one and the same animal.

**compelling** /kəmˈpel.ɪŋ/ *adjective.* 引人入胜的；令人信服的

> Were it not for the animal's backside having worn away with time, we could have been certain, as the lynx's **stubby** tail is unmistakable.

**stubby** /ˈstʌb.i/ *adjective.* 粗短的

> Rewilding means the mass restoration of damaged ecosystems. It involves letting trees return to places that have been **denuded**, allowing parts of the seabed to recover from trawling and dredging, permitting rivers to flow freely again.

**denuded** /dɪˈnuːd/ *verb.* 被剥夺了; 使....光秃

> Such findings present a big challenge to British conservation, which has often selected **arbitrary** assemblages of plants and animals and sought, at great effort and expense, to prevent them from changing.

**arbitrary** /ˈɑːr.bə.trer.i/ *adjective.* 武断的

> It will also winkle out sika deer: an exotic species that is almost impossible for human beings to control, as it hides in **impenetrable** plantations of young trees.

**impenetrable** /ɪmˈpen.ə.trə.bəl/ *adjective.* 无法穿透的

## UK companies need more effective boards of directors

site: [UK companies need more effective boards of directors](https://mini-ielts.com/1148/reading/uk-companies-need-more-effective-boards-of-directors)

> Governments, **regulators**, central banks and **auditors** have all been in the frame.

**regulator** /ˈreɡ.jə.leɪ.t̬ɚ/ *noun.* 校准器; 监管者

**auditor** /ˈɑː.də.t̬ɚ/ *noun.* 审计者

> Often, board business is devolved to committees in order to **cope** with the workload, which may be more efficient but can mean that the board as a whole is less involved in fully addressing some of the most important issues.

**cope** /koʊp/ *verb.* 应付；承受

> Process may take the place of discussion and be at the expense of real collaboration, so that boxes are ticked rather than issues **tackled**.

**tackled** /ˈtæk.əl/ *verb.* 已解决

> Problems of recruitment, **remuneration** and independence could also arise and this structure would not be appropriate for all companies.

**remuneration** /rɪˌmjuː.nəˈreɪ.ʃən/ *noun.* 报酬

> The **tyranny** of quarterly reporting can distort board decision-making, as directors have to ‘make the numbers’ every four months to meet the **insatiable** **appetite** of the market for more data.

**tyranny** /ˈtɪr.ən.i/ *noun.* 专制政治

**insatiable** /ɪnˈseɪ.ʃə.bəl/ *adjective.* 贪得无厌的

**appetite** /ˈæp.ə.taɪt/ *noun.* 食欲

> **Compensation** for chief **executives** has become a combat zone where pitched battles between investors, management and board members are fought, often behind closed doors but increasingly frequently in the full glare of press attention.

**compensation** /ˌkɑːm.penˈseɪ.ʃən/ *noun.* 补偿

**executive** /ɪɡˈzek.jə.t̬ɪv/ *noun.* 执行官

> The chair of the remuneration committee can be an exposed and lonely role, as Alison Carnwath, chair of Barclays Bank’s remuneration committee, found when she had to resign, having been **roundly** criticised for trying to defend the **enormous** bonus to be paid to the chief executive; the **irony** being that she was widely understood to have spoken out against it in the privacy of the committee.

**roundly** /ˈraʊnd.li/ *adverb.* 坦率地

**enormous** /əˈnɔːr.məs/ *adjective.* 庞大的

**irony** /ˈaɪ.rə.ni/ *noun.* 讽刺

> The financial crisis stimulated a debate about the role and purpose of the company and a heightened awareness of corporate **ethics**.

**ethics** /ˈeθ·ɪks/ *phrase.* 道德

> Trust in the corporation has been **eroded** and academics such as Michael Sandel, in his thoughtful and bestselling book What Money Can’t Buy, are questioning the **morality** of **capitalism** and the market economy.

**eroded** /ɪˈroʊd/ *verb.* 被侵蚀

**morality** /məˈræl.ə.t̬i/ *noun.* 道德

**capitalism** /ˈkæp.ə.t̬əl.ɪ.zəm/ *noun.* 资本主义

> Boards of companies in all sectors will need to widen their perspective to encompass these issues and this may involve a **realignment** of corporate goals.

**realignment** /ˌriː.əˈlaɪn.mənt/ *noun.* 调整位置
