---
title: Cambridge English 13-1
layout: post
tags: ['IELTS', 'Reading']
---

## Case Study: Tourism New Zealand website

site: [Case Study: Tourism New Zealand website](https://blog.maple.im/material/13-1-1/)

> In 1999, Tourism New Zealand launched a **campaign** to communicate a new brand position to the world.

**campaign** /kæmˈpeɪn/ *noun.* 运动

> The campaign focused on New Zealand’s scenic beauty, **exhilarating** outdoor activities and **authentic** Maori culture, and it made New Zealand one of the strongest national brands in the world.

**exhilarating** /ɪɡˈzɪl.ə.reɪ.t̬ɪŋ/ *adjective.* 使人兴奋的

**authentic** /ɑːˈθen.t̬ɪk/ *adjective.* 真品的

> Another feature that attracted a lot of attention was an interactive journey through a number of the locations chosen for **blockbuster** films which had made use of New Zealand’s stunning scenery as a backdrop.

**blockbuster** /ˈblɑːkˌbʌs.tɚ/ *noun.* 轰动一时的成功

> As the site developed, additional features were added to help independent trave\ers dev\se thek own customised **itineraries**.

**itinerary** /aɪˈtɪn.ə.rer.i/ *noun.* 行程

> On the website, visitors can search for activities not **solely** by geographical location, but also by the particular nature of the activity.

**solely** /ˈsoʊl.li/ *adverb.* 完全地

> However, the underlying lessons apply anywhere - the effectiveness of a strong brand, a strategy based on unique experiences and a **comprehensive** and user-friendly website.

**comprehensive** /ˌkɑːm.prəˈhen.sɪv/ *adjective.* 全面的

## Why being bored is stimulating - and useful, too

site: [Why being bored is stimulating - and useful, too](https://blog.maple.im/material/13-1-2/)

> For a start, it can include a lot of other mental states, such as frustration, **apathy**, depression and **indifference**.

**apathy** /ˈæp.ə.θi/ *noun.* 冷漠

**indifference** /ɪnˈdɪf.ɚ.əns/ *noun.* 漠不关心

> There isn’t even agreement over whether boredom is always a low-energy, flat kind of emotion or whether feeling **agitated** and **restless** counts as boredom, too.

**agitated** /ˈædʒ.ə.teɪ.t̬ɪd/ *adjective.* 焦虑的

**restless** /ˈrest.ləs/ *adjective.* 躁动的

> By asking people about their experiences of boredom, Thomas Goetz and his team at the University of Konstanz in Germany have recently identified five distinct types: indifferent, **calibrating**, searching, reactant and apathetic.

**calibrating** /ˈkæl.ə.breɪt/ *verb.* 校准

> These can be plotted on two axes - one running left to right, which measures low to high **arousal**, and the other from top to bottom, which measures how positive or negative the feeling is.

**arousal** /əˈraʊ.zəl/ *noun.* 唤起；激动

> **Intriguingly**, Goetz has found that while people experience all kinds of boredom, they tend to specialise in one.

**intriguingly** /ɪnˈtriː.ɡɪŋ.li/ *adverb.* 引人入胜地

> However, it remains to be seen whether there are any character traits that predict the kind of boredom each of us might be **prone** to.

**prone** /proʊn/ *adjective.* 俯卧的；容易...的

- to be prone to sth. 容易遭受某事

> But even if boredom has evolved to help us survive, it can still be toxic if allowed to **fester**.

**fester** /ˈfes.tɚ/ *verb.* 溃烂

> ‘People try to connect with the world and if they are not successful there’s that frustration and **irritability**,’ he says.

**irritability** /ˌɪr.ə.t̬əˈbɪl.ə.t̬i/ *noun.* 过敏性；易怒的

## Artificial artists

site: [Artificial artists](https://blog.maple.im/material/13-1-3/)

> Classical music by an artificial composer has had audiences **enraptured**, and even tricked them into believing a human was behind the score.

**enraptured** /ɪnˈræp.tʃɚd/ *adjective.* 欣喜若狂

> Artworks painted by a robot have sold for thousands of dollars and been hung in **prestigious** **galleries**.

**prestigious** /presˈtɪdʒ.əs/ *adjective.* 有声望的

**gallery** /ˈɡæl.ɚ.i/ *noun.* 美术馆

> Human beings are the only species to perform **sophisticated** creative acts regularly.

**sophisticated** /səˈfɪs.tə.keɪ.t̬ɪd/ *adjective.* 老于世故的

> Consider one of the oldest machine artists, Aaron, a robot that has had paintings **exhibited** in London’s Tate Modern and the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art.

**exhibited** /ɪɡˈzɪb.ɪt/ *verb.* 展出

> The software runs its own web searches and **trawls** through social media sites.

**trawl** /trɑːl/ *verb.* 拖网、查阅

> One of its original works is a series of fuzzy landscapes, **depicting** trees and sky.

**depicting** /dɪˈpɪkt/ *verb.* 描绘

> Some of the Painting Fool’s paintings of a chair came out in black and white, thanks to a technical **glitch**. This gives the work an **eerie**, ghostlike quality.

**glitch** /ɡlɪtʃ/ *noun.* 失灵

**eerie** /ˈɪr.i/ *adjective.* 怪异恐怖的

> Some, such as Wiggins, have blasted Cope’s work as **pseudoscience**, and **condemned** him for his deliberately **vague** explanation of how the software worked.

**pseudoscience** /ˈsuː.doʊ.saɪ.əns/ *noun.* 伪科学

**condemned** /kənˈdemd/ *adjective.* 谴责；被判处死刑的

**vague** /veɪɡ/ *adjective.* 模糊的

> Meanwhile, Douglas Hofstadter of Indiana University said EMI created replicas which still rely completely on the original artist’s creative **impulses**: When audiences found out the truth they were often **outraged** with Cope, and one music lover even tried to punch him.

**impulse** /ˈɪm.pʌls/ *noun.* 冲动

**outraged** /ˈaʊt.reɪdʒd/ *adjective.* 愤怒

> But why did so many people love the music, yet **recoil** when they discovered how it was composed?

**recoil** /rɪˈkɔɪl/ *verb.* 后退; 弹回

> he **reckons** part of the pleasure we get from art **stems** from the creative process behind the work.

**reckon** /ˈrek.ən/ *verb.* 认为

**stem** /stem/ *noun.* 起源、茎

> This can give it an ‘**irresistible** essence’, says Bloom.

**irresistible** /ˌɪr.əˈzɪs.tə.bəl/ *adjective.* 不可抗拒的
