---
title: Cambridge English 13-3
layout: post
tags: ['IELTS', 'Reading']
---

## The coconut palm

site: [The coconut palm](https://blog.yinheng.me/material/13-3-1/)

Relative: [ODE TO THE COCONUT PALM](http://volnomuvolya.com/ode_to_the_coconut_palm.html)

> For **millennia**, the coconut has been central to the lives of Polynesian and Asian peoples.

**millennium** /mɪˈlen.i.əm/ *noun.* 一千年

- plural  **millenniums**/**millennia**

> Today, images of palm-fringed tropical beaches are **clichés** in the west to sell holidays, chocolate bars, fizzy drinks and even romance.

**cliché** /kliːˈʃeɪ/ *noun.* 陈词滥调

> Typically, we **envisage** coconuts as brown **cannonballs** that, when opened, provide sweet white flesh.

**envisage** /ɪnˈvɪz.ɪdʒ/ *verb.* 展望

**cannonball** /ˈkæn.ən.bɔːl/ *noun.* 炮弹

> But we see only part of the fruit and none of the plant from which they come.

> The coconut palm has a smooth, **slender**, grey trunk, up to 30 metres tall.

**slender** /ˈslen.dɚ/ *adjective.* 苗条的

> The trunk is **surmounted** by a **rosette** of leaves, each of which may be up to six metres long.

**surmounted** /sɚˈmaʊnt/ *verb.* 居于...之上; 超越

**rosette** /roʊˈzet/ *noun.* 莲座型叶丛

> The leaves have hard **veins** in their centres which, in many parts of the world, are used as brushes after the green part of the leaf has been stripped away.

**vein** /veɪn/ *noun.* 静脉; 叶脉; 纹路

> Immature coconut flowers are tightly **clustered** together among the leaves at the top of the trunk.

**cluster** /ˈklʌs.tɚ/ *noun.* 群; 聚集; 丛生

> The flower **stems** may be tapped for their **sap** to produce a drink, and the sap can also be reduced by boiling to produce a type of sugar used for cooking.

**stem** /stem/ *noun.* 茎

**sap** /sæp/ *verb.* 汁液

> The wall of the fruit has three layers: a **waterproof** outer layer, a fibrous middle layer and a hard, inner layer. The thick fibrous middle layer produces coconut fibre, ‘coir’,which has numerous uses and is particularly important in manufacturing ropes.

**waterproof** /ˈwɑː.t̬ɚ.pruːf/ *adjective.* 防水的; 雨衣

> The woody innermost layer, the shell, with its three **prominent** ‘eyes’,surrounds the seed.

**prominent** /ˈprɑː.mə.nənt/ *adjective.* 重要的

- **reminiscent of the eye**

> An important product obtained from the shell is **charcoal**, which is widely used in various industries as well as in the home as a cooking fuel.

**charcoal** /ˈtʃɑːr.koʊl/ *noun.* 木炭

> Dried coconut flesh, ‘copra,is made into coconut oil and coconut milk, which are widely used in cooking in different parts of the world, as well as in **cosmetics**.

**cosmetics** /kɑzˈmet̬·ɪks/ *phrase.* 化妆品

> A **derivative** of coconut fat, **glycerine**, acquired strategic importance in a quite different **sphere**, as Alfred Nobel introduced the world to his **nitroglycerine**-based invention: dynamite.

**derivative** /dɪˈrɪv.ə.t̬ɪv/ *adjective.* 派生物; 衍生品

**glycerine** /ˈɡlɪs.ɚ.riːn/ *noun.* 甘油

**sphere** /sfɪr/ *noun.* 圆形实心体

**nitroglycerine** /ˌnaɪ.troʊˈɡlɪs.ɚ.iːn/ *noun.* 硝化甘油

**dynamite** /ˈdaɪ.nə.maɪt/ *noun.* 黄色炸药

> The large, energy-rich fruits are able to float in water and tolerate salt, but cannot remain **viable** indefinitely; studies suggest after about 110 days at sea they are no longer able to **germinate**.

**viable** /ˈvaɪ.ə.bəl/ *adjective.* 有望成功的

**germinate** /ˈdʒɝː.mə.neɪt/ *verb.* 发芽

> Literally cast onto desert island shores, with little more than sand to grow in and exposed to the full **glare** of the tropical sun, coconut seeds are able to germinate and root.

**glare** /ɡler/ *noun.* 刺眼的强光; 显眼

> In America, there are close coconut relatives, but no evidence that coconuts are **indigenous**.

**indigenous** /ɪnˈdɪdʒ.ə.nəs/ *adjective.* 当地的

# How baby talk gives infant brains a boost

site: [How baby talk gives infant brains a boost](https://blog.yinheng.me/material/13-3-2/)

> A The typical way of talking to a baby - high-**pitched**, **exaggerated** and repetitious - is a source of fascination for linguists who hope to understand how ‘baby talk’ impacts on learning.

**pitched** /pɪtʃt/ *adjective.* 高音; 投球

**exaggerated** /ɪɡˈzædʒ.ə.reɪ.t̬ɪd/ *adjective.* 夸大的

> So how does the sweet if sometimes **absurd** sound of infant- directed speech influence a baby’s development?

**absurd** /əbˈsɝːd/ *adjective.* 荒唐的

> ‘The idea is that a kid gets to practice a certain kind of speech with mom and another kind of speech with dad, so the kid then has a wider **repertoire** of kinds of speech to practice,’ says VanDam.

**repertoire** /ˈrep.ɚ.twɑːr/ *noun.* 全部技能

> The study found that the more baby talk parents used, the more their youngsters began to **babble**.

**babble** /ˈbæb.əl/ *verb.* 含糊不清地说

> In a study published in *Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences*, a total of 57 babies from two slightly different age groups - seven months and eleven and a half months - were played a number of **syllables** from both their native language (English) and a non-native tongue (Spanish).

**syllable** /ˈsɪl.ə.bəl/ *noun.* 音节

# Whatever happened to the Harappan Civilisation?

site: [Whatever happened to the Harappan Civilisation?](https://blog.yinheng.me/material/13-3-3/)

> The Harappan Civilisation was a **sophisticated** Bronze Age society who built ‘megacities’ and traded internationally in luxury craft products, and yet seemed to have left almost no **depictions** of themselves.

**sophisticated** /səˈfɪs.tə.keɪ.t̬ɪd/ *adjective.* 老于世故的

**depiction** /dɪˈpɪk.ʃən/ *noun.* 描绘

> Houses were arranged in blocks, with wide main streets and narrow alleyways, and many had their own wells and **drainage** systems.

**drainage** /ˈdreɪ.nɪdʒ/ *noun.* 排水

> Streets went uncleaned, buildings started to be abandoned, and **ritual** structures fell out of use.

**ritual** /ˈrɪtʃ.u.əl/ *noun.* 仪式; 惯例

> Some have claimed that major glacier-fed rivers changed their course, dramatically affecting the water supply and agriculture; or that the cities could not cope with an increasing population, they exhausted their resource base, the trading economy broke down or they succumbed to **invasion** and conflict; and yet others that climate change caused an environmental change that affected food and water **provision**.

**invasion** /ɪnˈveɪ.ʒən/ *noun.* 入侵

**provision** /prəˈvɪʒ.ən/ *noun.* 供给

> They realized that any attempts to use the existing data were likely to be fundamentally **flawed**.

**flawed** /flɑːd/ *adjective.* 有缺陷的

> Over the course of several seasons of fieldwork they carried out new surveys, finding an **astonishing** 198 settlement sites that were previously unknown.

**astonishing** /əˈstɑː.nɪ.ʃɪŋ/ *adjective.* 令人大为惊奇的

> The researchers gathered shells of Melanoides tuberculata snails from the **sediments** of an ancient lake and used geochemical analysis as a means of tracing the climate history of the region.

**sediment** /ˈsed.ə.mənt/ *noun.* 沉淀物

> ‘As today, the major source of water into the lake is likely to have been the summer **monsoon**,’ says Dixit. ‘But we have observed that there was an **abrupt** change about 4,100 years ago, when the amount of **evaporation** from the lake **exceeded** the rainfall一 indicative of a drought.’

**monsoon** /mɑːnˈsuːn/ *noun.* 季风; 雨季

**abrupt** /əˈbrʌpt/ *adjective.* 突然的

**evaporation** /ɪˌvæp.əˈreɪ.ʃən/ *noun.* 蒸发

**exceeded** /ɪkˈsiːd/ *verb.* 超过

>  ‘By investigating responses to environmental pressures and threats, we can learn from the past to engage with the public, and the relevant governmental and administrative bodies, to be more **proactive** in issues such as the management and administration of water supply, the balance of urban and rural development, and the importance of preserving cultural heritage in the future.’

**proactive** /ˌproʊˈæk.tɪv/ *adjective.* 积极主动的
